README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">CMatrix</h1>

<h3 align="center"> Matrix like effect in your terminal </h3>

</p>
<p align="center">
  <a href="./COPYING"></a>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/contributions-welcome-orange">
  </a>
</p>


## Contents
- [Overview](#overview)
- [Build Dependencies](#build-dependencies)
- [Building and Installation](#building-and-installing-cmatrix)
    - [Using configure (recommended)](#using-configure-(recommended-for-most-linux%2Fmingw-users))
    - [Using CMake](#using-cmake)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Captures](#captures)
    - [Screenshots](#screenshots)
- [Maintainer](#maintainers)
    - [Contributors](#our-contributors)
- [Contribution Guide](#contribution-guide)
- [License](#license)


## Overview

CMatrix is based on the screensaver from The Matrix website. It shows text
flying in and out in a terminal like as seen in "The Matrix" movie. It can
scroll lines all at the same rate or asynchronously and at a user-defined
speed.

This build of CMatrix is a fork of the 2.0 version maintained by Abishek V Ashok, adding some
new features, optional support for libncursesw, updated support for the original fonts,
and more.

CMatrix is inspired from 'The Matrix' movie. If you haven’t seen this movie and you are a fan of computers or sci-fi in general, go see this movie!!!

> `Disclaimer` : We are in no way affiliated in any way with the movie "The Matrix", "Warner Bros" nor
any of its affiliates in any way, just fans.

## Build Dependencies
You'll probably need a decent ncurses library to get this to work. On Windows, using mingw-w64-ncurses is recommended (PDCurses will also work, but it does not support colors or bold text).
<br>
##### For Linux<br>
Run this command to check the version of ncurses.
```
ldconfig -p | grep ncurses
```
If you get no output then you need to install ncurses. Click below to install ncurses in Linux.
- [ncurses](https://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/linux-install-ncurses-library-headers-on-debian-ubuntu-centos-fedora/)

## Building and installing cmatrix
To install cmatrix, Clone this repo in your local system and use either of the following methods from within the cmatrix directory.

#### Using `configure` (recommended for most linux/mingw users)
```sh
autoreconf -i  # skip if using released tarball
./configure
make
make install
```

#### Using CMake
Here we also show an out-of-source build in the sub directory "build".
(Doesn't work on Windows, for now).
```sh
mkdir -p build
cd build
# to install to "/usr/local"
cmake ..
# OR 
# to install to "/usr"
#cmake -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/usr ..
make
make install
```
## Usage

After you have installed **cmatrix** just type the command `cmatrix` to run it :)
```sh
cmatrix
```
Run with different arguments to get different effects.
```sh
cmatrix -[aAbBcfhklLmnopsVxk] [-C color] [-M message] [-P count] [-t tty] [-u delay]
```
Example:
```sh
cmatrix -ba -u 2 -C red
```

For more options and **help** run `cmatrix -h` <br>OR<br> Read the Manual Page by running command `man cmatrix`

_To get the program to look most like the movie, use `cmatrix -ba`_

> _Note: cmatrix is probably not particularly portable or efficient. Use the -p
option on older/slower systems to take a time penalty up front and save cycles as it runs.

## Captures

#### Screenshots

<!-- ![Movie-Like Cast](data/img/cmatrix-utf8-version-1.gif?raw=true "cmatrix -ba") -->
<p align="center">
<img width=50% src="./data/img/cmatrix_rainbow.gif" alt="cmatrix screencast rainbow">
</p>

<p align="center">
<img width=50% src="./data/img/cmatrix_oldscroll.gif" alt="cmatrix screencast old scroll">
</p>

### Maintainers
- This repo: Xylia Allegretta <xylia.allegretta@gmail.com>
- Version 2.0: Abishek V Ashok (@abishekvashok) <abishekvashok@gmail.com>

## Our Contributors
#### Thanks to
- **Chris Allegretta** <chrisa@asty.org> for writing cmatrix up in a fortnight and giving us
  the responsibility to further improve it.
- **Krisjon Hanson** and **Bjoern Ganslandt** for helping with bold support and
  Bjoern again for the cursor removal code, helping with the `-u` and `-l`
  modes/flags, and Makefile improvements.
- **Adam Gurno** for multi-color support.
- **Garrick West** for debian consolefont dir support.
- **Nemo** for design thoughts and continuous help and support.
- **John Donahue** for helping with transparent term support
- **Ben Esacove** for Redhat 6 compatibility w/matrix.psf.gz
- **jwz** for the xmatrix module to xscreensaver at http://www.jwz.org/xscreensaver.
- **Sumit Kumar Soni** for beautifying the README.
- The makers of the Matrix for one kickass movie!
- Everyone who has sent (and who will send) us mails regarding
  bugs, comments, patches or just a simple hello.
- Everyone who has contributed to the project by opening issues and PRs on the github repository.

## Contribution Guide
If you have any suggestions/flames/patches to send, please feel free to:
- Open issues and if possible label them, so that it is easy to categorise features, bugs etc.
- If you solved some problems or made some valuable changes, Please open a Pull Request on Github.
- See [contributing.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md) for more details.

## License
This software is provided under the GNU GPL v3. [View License](./COPYING)

Commit message:

Add the keystrokes into the README and alter recommended usage. I'm not documenting all the crap you might need to do to use -l or -x

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">CMatrix</h1>

<h3 align="center"> Matrix like effect in your terminal </h3>

</p>
<p align="center">
  <a href="./COPYING"></a>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/contributions-welcome-orange">
  </a>
</p>


## Contents
- [Overview](#overview)
- [Build Dependencies](#build-dependencies)
- [Building and Installation](#building-and-installing-cmatrix)
    - [Using configure (recommended)](#using-configure-(recommended-for-most-linux%2Fmingw-users))
    - [Using CMake](#using-cmake)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Captures](#captures)
    - [Screenshots](#screenshots)
- [Maintainer](#maintainers)
    - [Contributors](#our-contributors)
- [Contribution Guide](#contribution-guide)
- [License](#license)


## Overview

CMatrix is based on the screensaver from The Matrix website. It shows text
flying in and out in a terminal like as seen in "The Matrix" movie. It can
scroll lines all at the same rate or asynchronously and at a user-defined
speed.

This build of CMatrix is a fork of the 2.0 version maintained by Abishek V Ashok, adding some
new features, optional support for libncursesw, updated support for the original fonts,
and more.

CMatrix is inspired from 'The Matrix' movie. If you haven’t seen this movie and you are a fan of computers or sci-fi in general, go see this movie!!!

> `Disclaimer` : We are in no way affiliated in any way with the movie "The Matrix", "Warner Bros" nor
any of its affiliates in any way, just fans.

## Build Dependencies
You'll probably need a decent ncurses library to get this to work. On Windows, using mingw-w64-ncurses is recommended (PDCurses will also work, but it does not support colors or bold text).
<br>
##### For Linux<br>
Run this command to check the version of ncurses.
```
ldconfig -p | grep ncurses
```
If you get no output then you need to install ncurses. Click below to install ncurses in Linux.
- [ncurses](https://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/linux-install-ncurses-library-headers-on-debian-ubuntu-centos-fedora/)

## Building and installing cmatrix
To install cmatrix, Clone this repo in your local system and use either of the following methods from within the cmatrix directory.

#### Using `configure` (recommended for most linux/mingw users)
```sh
autoreconf -i  # skip if using released tarball
./configure
make
make install
```

#### Using CMake
Here we also show an out-of-source build in the sub directory "build".
(Doesn't work on Windows, for now).
```sh
mkdir -p build
cd build
# to install to "/usr/local"
cmake ..
# OR 
# to install to "/usr"
#cmake -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/usr ..
make
make install
```
## Usage

After you have installed **cmatrix** just type the command `cmatrix` to run it :)
```sh
cmatrix
```
Run with different arguments to get different effects.
```sh
cmatrix -[aAbBcfhklLmnopsVxk] [-C color] [-M message] [-P count] [-t tty] [-u delay]
```
Example:
```sh
cmatrix -ba -u 2 -C red
```

For more options and **help** run `cmatrix -h` <br>OR<br> Read the Manual Page by running command `man cmatrix`

_To get the program to look most like the movie, use `cmatrix -abc`_

> _Note: cmatrix is probably not particularly portable or efficient. Use the -p
option on older/slower systems to take a time penalty up front and save cycles as it runs.

## On the fly changes
You can use the following keystrokes to change CMatrix on the fly:

Key | Function
----|--------------------------------
0-9 | Adjust update speed
a   | Toggle asynchronous scroll
b   | Random bold characters
B   | All bold characters
k   | Toggle random character changes
m   | Toggle lambda mode
n   | Turn off bold characters
o   | Old-style scrolling
p   | Pause scrolling
q   | Quit the program
r   | Toggle rainbow mode

## Captures

#### Screenshots

<!-- ![Movie-Like Cast](data/img/cmatrix-utf8-version-1.gif?raw=true "cmatrix -ba") -->
<p align="center">
<img width=50% src="./data/img/cmatrix_rainbow.gif" alt="cmatrix screencast rainbow">
</p>

<p align="center">
<img width=50% src="./data/img/cmatrix_oldscroll.gif" alt="cmatrix screencast old scroll">
</p>

### Maintainers
- This repo: Xylia Allegretta <xylia.allegretta@gmail.com>
- Version 2.0: Abishek V Ashok (@abishekvashok) <abishekvashok@gmail.com>

## Our Contributors
#### Thanks to
- **Chris Allegretta** <chrisa@asty.org> for writing cmatrix up in a fortnight and giving us
  the responsibility to further improve it.
- **Krisjon Hanson** and **Bjoern Ganslandt** for helping with bold support and
  Bjoern again for the cursor removal code, helping with the `-u` and `-l`
  modes/flags, and Makefile improvements.
- **Adam Gurno** for multi-color support.
- **Garrick West** for debian consolefont dir support.
- **Nemo** for design thoughts and continuous help and support.
- **John Donahue** for helping with transparent term support
- **Ben Esacove** for Redhat 6 compatibility w/matrix.psf.gz
- **jwz** for the xmatrix module to xscreensaver at http://www.jwz.org/xscreensaver.
- **Sumit Kumar Soni** for beautifying the README.
- The makers of the Matrix for one kickass movie!
- Everyone who has sent (and who will send) us mails regarding
  bugs, comments, patches or just a simple hello.
- Everyone who has contributed to the project by opening issues and PRs on the github repository.

## Contribution Guide
If you have any suggestions/flames/patches to send, please feel free to:
- Open issues and if possible label them, so that it is easy to categorise features, bugs etc.
- If you solved some problems or made some valuable changes, Please open a Pull Request on Github.
- See [contributing.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md) for more details.

## License
This software is provided under the GNU GPL v3. [View License](./COPYING)
